<h1>MUSIC GENRE CLASSIFICATION, EMOTION RECOGNITION AND RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM USING DEEP LEARNING</h1>
<h2>ABSTRACT</h2>

<p>The proliferation of high-tech multimedia technologies has revolutionized music consumption, ushering in an era of unparalleled accessto diverse musical content online. However, the abundance of music poses achallenge in efficient classification, particularly in categorizing music intodistinct genres. Traditional methods relying on manual feature extraction andshallow machine learning algorithms struggle with accuracy, especiallywhen dealing with vast and diverse datasets. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach that leverages advanced transfer and deep learning techniques to create the BAG model, capable of capturing intricate relationships within music data. In addition to genre classification, our project integrates emotion recognition using a ResNet model, which exploits deep layers to capture subtle patterns in facial expressions. By combining music genre preferences with facial expression analysis, our system offers a groundbreaking approach to personalized music recommendation. By analyzing users' facial expressions, the system can infer emotional states or preferences, enhancing the understanding of the user's mood and enabling tailored music suggestions. Through this interdisciplinary approach, we aim to overcome the limitations of existing music classification methods and provide users with more relevant and personalized music recommendations. Our research not only aligns with the evolving trends in digital music consumption but also contributes to the advancement of music recommendation systems by integrating emotion recognition with genre preferences.</p>
